Manifest V3 tab-sets (#2272)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/developer-guide/declare-permissions.md

To use most of the `chrome.*` APIs, your extension must declare its intent in the `permissions` fields of the manifest.  An extension can declare permissions using a permission string from the table that follows, or use a pattern to match similar strings.  Permissions help to constrain your extension if it gets compromised by malware.  Some permissions are displayed to users for their consent before installation of the extension, or at runtime, as needed; these are Permission Warnings.

> If an API requires you to declare permissions in the manifest, see the documentation for that API to understand the needed permissions.  For example, the [Storage API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/storage/) page describes how to declare the `storage` permission.

Reviewer: Needs eng. review

Reviewer 2: LGTM

The following code outlines how to declare permissions in the manifest file:

> #### [Manifest V3](#tab/v3)

Reviewer: Engineering to review code

Reviewer 2: We don't need this because immediately after this, I see "Here's an example of the permissions part of a manifest file" and that covers the same thing again.

Author: Confirmed exact dup.  Removed.

```json
"permissions": [
  "tabs",
  "bookmarks",
  "storage",
  "http://www.blogger.com/",
  "http://*.google.com/"
],
"optional_permissions": [
  "unlimitedStorage"
]
```

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

Here's an example of the permissions part of a manifest file:

#### [Manifest V3](#tab/v3)

```json
"permissions": [
  "tabs",
  "bookmarks",
  "storage"
],
"optional_permissions": [
  "unlimitedStorage"
],
"host_permissions": [
  "http://www.blogger.com/",
  "http://*.google.com/"
],
```

#### [Manifest V2](#tab/v2)

```json
"permissions": [
  "tabs",
  "bookmarks",
  "storage",
  "http://www.blogger.com/",
  "http://*.google.com/"
],
"optional_permissions": [
  "unlimitedStorage"
]
```

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
The following table lists the currently available permission strings to use in your manifest, and the descriptions.

| Permission string | Details |
|:--- |:--- |
| `activeTab` | Requests that the extension is granted permissions according to the `activeTab` specification. |
| `alarms` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.alarms` API. |

> | `background` | Makes Microsoft Edge start up early and shut down late, so that extensions may have a longer life. <br/>The `background` permission is normally used on a background page.  When any installed extension has `background` permission, Microsoft Edge runs invisibly as soon as the user logs into the user's computer, and before the user launches Microsoft Edge.  The `background` permission also makes Microsoft Edge continue running, even after its last window is closed, until the user explicitly quits Microsoft Edge. <br/>**Note:** Disabled extensions are treated as if they aren't installed. <br/>You should use the "background" permission with [background scripts](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/background_pages/).|

Reviewer 2: <br/>The `background` permission is normally used on a background page.

This line is not needed because we are already adding it after the Note.

Author: Removed sentence.

| `cookies` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.cookies` API. |
| `debugger` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.debugger` API. |
| `declarativeContent` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeContent` API. |
| `declarativeNetRequest` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeNetRequest` API. Allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without requiring host permissions, but requires host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers.|

> | `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeNetRequest` API.  Always requires host permissions on the request URL and on the initiator, to act on the request. |

Author: @utkarshspat - pls review the above two rows

Reviewer 2: LGTM

| `debugger` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.debugger` API. |
| `declarativeContent` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeContent` API. |
| `declarativeNetRequest` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeNetRequest` API. |

> | `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | `declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` both allow the extension to use the `declarativeNetRequest` API. <br/>The `declarativeNetRequest` permission allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without requiring host permissions, but requires host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers. <br/>The `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission always requires host permissions on the request URL and on the initiator, to act on the request. |

Author: @utkarshspat - Please review this row, declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess.

| `debugger` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.debugger` API. |
| `declarativeContent` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeContent` API. |
| `declarativeNetRequest` | Gives your extension access to the `chrome.declarativeNetRequest` API. |

> | `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | `declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`both allow the extension to use the `declarativeNetRequest` API. The `declarativeNetRequest` permission allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without host permissions but needs host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers. The `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission always needs host permissions to the request URL and the initiator to act on the request. |

Reviewer: Needs eng. review

Author: @utkarshspat - pls review added row `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`.  

If needed, I could find which commit added this row, in this PR or 2101.

Author: This comment thread is superseded by a Suggestion comment that proposes changed wording.

> | `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | `declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`both allow the extension to use the `declarativeNetRequest` API. The `declarativeNetRequest` permission allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without host permissions but needs host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers. The `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission always needs host permissions to the request URL and the initiator to act on the request. |

Reviewer 2: A space is needed after `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` in the line:
`declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`both allow the extension to use

Author: added space

> | `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | `declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`both allow the extension to use the `declarativeNetRequest` API. The `declarativeNetRequest` permission allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without host permissions but needs host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers. The `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission always needs host permissions to the request URL and the initiator to act on the request. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` | `declarativeNetRequest` API and `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess`both allow the extension to use the `declarativeNetRequest` API. The `declarativeNetRequest` permission allows the extension to block and upgrade requests without host permissions but needs host permissions to redirect requests or modify headers. The `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission requires that the app must have host permissions on the request URL and the initiator, to act on the request. |
```
pls tech review this wording change @utkarshspat
